# Ancient History Class
## 21st Century lecture
### By Guinevere Larsen

Welcome to a new semester of classical history class. today well be taking a look at one of the most influential nations of the 21st century: Internet. Despite the number of myths and urban legends, and what you studied in middle school, not much is actually known about Internet. Archeologists have trouble even placing it on earth, since trade disputes involving this country seemed to have been mostly between the countries of US and European Union, but the biggest immigration regulations came from Cheena.

What we do know for certain is that Internet had a very lax immigration policy, as citizens born of many many countries moved to it. Interestingly, there seems to be no native Internet citizens, so we theorize that despite being a place that many chose to live back in its heyday, the actual legislation or citizenship power was fairly low, as Internet denizens would move back to their countries of origin to give birth, then return to Internet, bringing their children along once Maturity was reached - which was believed to be at 13 years of age.

From our best reconstructions, internet seemed to be built from many independent sovereign areas, names Web Sites, and though most citizens would be what we consider "nomads" nowadays - moving from site to site, usually tens or hundreds of times a day - most of them seemed to believe themselves to be sedentary. At the start, it was very common for citizens to have their Home Site in some sort of Pages, where other citizens could find them and visit them, but as the country expanded, this was deemed too cumbersome, so citizens turned to well established Web Sites to form a home there. Some famous locations seem to be: The Tube of You, Twixtter, and the Book of Faces. We believe that this last of got its name from the Pages of Home of early Internet citizens

Much of what we say from here on out tends to be specific to each sovereign site, as they seemed to form a loose federation, rather than a tight knit country. However, the biggest of those sites seemed to have some form of class system where the highest class, usually called "Verified" or "Influencer", would have direct contact with the oligarchical powers that defined the rules of each site, though no influencer could really effect how the country as a whole was governed. And the lower class, that had many different names depending on which site you see. Some names were "Chat", "followers", "audience". We do not understand why the class system seemed so focused on performance lingo, but some theorize that it is a new development of the "panem et circenses" that had recently been developed by the Roman poet Juvenal.

The citizens of Internet had some interesting myths. They seemed to worship a god called Algorithm which, unlike modern religions, seems to be a vengeful sort of god. Some citizens seemed to believe in a monotheistic religion, where a singular algorithm ruled over every citizen of the site - as seen by quotes such as "You chewb changed its algorithm" and "the Algorithm has been suggesting really bad things recently" - others seemed to believe in a polytheistic view, believing that each person had their own algorithm watching over them, saying such things as "I won't even look at this, lest my algorithm be scrambled and I spend weeks hearing suggestions of similar content" and "sorry for making your algorithm suggest ads like these to you".

We are out of time for today's lesson, so for next class, read the chapter on different theological explanations for Algorithms, as we'll dive deeper into them
