= Factions =

== Church of the Second Coming ==

In Rio do sul there are a group of crazos worshiping the new god. They believe that a new god is upon us and the correct way to live this new order is to live positively like the sleepy ones. If you sinned in your past life you'll be awakened to test your character, and by choosing to live happily along the sleepyones, you prove your devotion, going back to sleep

They wish to be put back to sleep, but don't understand what is going on, so every once in a while they'll see a former devout back to being mesmerized and will cheer for it.

=== Commandments ===

1. You shall not remove people from heaven, nor shall you harm them;
2. You shall use your skills to serve those who have already been saved;
3. You shall use all extra time in self reflection and prayer, to attone for your sins;
4. Once re-accepted into heaven, you shall not leave once more;
5. You shall not interact with banished individuals

=== NPCs ===

Father Egon
* Signs:
    * Mind: earth,
    * Mouth: fire,
    * Eyes: water
* Backstory:  
  Egon was never caught in the mesmerizing, due to being hidden so quietly at home. He saw the mesmerized people being hurt and decided to help. From talking to others, he figured it was paradise and created the whole religion. Nowadays he is so blissful in his service, even aliens themselves think he is mesmerized.  
  Egon believes that he was left awake as the martir and the sheperd, here to guide souls back to heaven and to care for the saved ones.


Acolyte Marcelo:
* Signs:
    * Mind: Water
    * Mouth: Earth
    * Eyes: Air
* Backstory:  
  Marcelo was accidentally awakened by Egon, because it triggered one of his traumas (SA). However, he doesn't realize this trauma, and fully buys into the religion, thinking that he was awakened.  
  He had a relationship with Roberto, Aline's son, and feels guilty that he wanted Roberto to be awakened, seeing as this would take Roberto away from heaven.


Basnished Aline:
* Signs:
    * Mind: Water
    * Mouth: Fire
    * Eyes: Air
* Backstory:  
  Aline isn't a believer, she was just using the the cult to get free supplies while she tried to find her son. When she found and awakened him, the cult decided to banish Aline for her sins, and send Roberto back to "heaven".  
  She is sure this is a death sentence, but will join one of the conspiracy groups.

== Alien Truthers ==

A group of people are hidden in the caves of Botuvera believe that the real reason for the mesmerizing is aliens doing it. They decided to hide in a place far for civilization and wait for the aliens to decide to leave.

They don't think that the aliens will destroy the whole world, just that they'll collect some stuff and go back home, so they don't plan on being self sustaining.

=== Commmandments ===

1. You shall avoid big groups of people as much as possible (be far away from cities)
2. You shall not leave alone. Big groups are preferred.
3. You must share all available resources. It is only worth it if all people survive.
4. People can't be trusted, make as little reference as possible to the group.

=== NPCs === 

Lucio: Lider
* Signs:
    * Mind: Air
    * Mouth: Air
    * Eye: Air
* Backstory:  
  Lucio is an incel. He is very sexist and defensive of his position. Lucio is knee deep into all sorts of pseudo science and conspiracy people. Lucio believes in homeopathy.  
  He woke up because of his own anxiety when talking to a girl.

Rolf: Medico
* Signs:
    * Mind: Fire
    * Mouth: Water
    * Eyes: Air
* Backstory:  
   Rolf is a short tempered, but very skilled, doctor. He has setup a pretty good makeshift doctor spot, since he can't continue on the city.  
   Rolf bickers endlessly with Lucio, but trusts his senses.

Aline: Just joined
* Signs:
    * Mind: Water
    * Mouth: Fire
    * Eyes: Air
* Backstory:  
  Check the religion. After being banished from Rio do Sul, Aline went south, bumped into Rolf and hearing that (they think) this is temporary, felt comforted and decided to stick around. It's better than dying anyway

== Gun Nuts ==

A group of survivors in Blumenau. They think that the reason why everyone is hypno'd is that the US has developed an experimental weapon capable of mass hypnotizing people, and they came here to steal our oil and our presalt oil!

== Evo Believo ==

A group of people who think that what happened is the next step of evolution. Someone was born with the ability to control people, however since they are only a baby, they can only make people be happy. They are selfishly worried about the baby controlling them, but disguise it by saying all humans will die.

== Sciencists ==

A bunch of scientists experimenting on people. They dont have a definitive theory, but they are experimenting on people asleep to figure out what wakes them and how they go back to sleep. The current theory is that personal bad memories awake them and some robot is the reason people are mesmerized, but they dont know more than that.
