adventure/README.md, before:

= Recovering the Croft Estate =

A sandbox campaign for D&D 5e, designed to get my wife into TTRPGs.

This campaign was greatly inspired by the game Darkest Dungeon in general idea and tone, and the details by the campaign Dungeons of Drakkenheim - by the Dungeon Dudes.

Pitch for a Game Master: Long ago, Cornelious Croft messed with things he didn't know enough about. This snowballed into needing to leave his castle behind, and now, several generations later, Lara Croft is back to reclaim the castle for her name. This is a sandbox campaign intended for 2 or 3 players (playable with 1 player and a DMPC) set in some island ruins, dealing with misterious magic.

Pitch for the players: Lara Croft - one of the players - found documents for the old Estate. After much research, she discovered the island where it is hidden, and wants to make it her home once again. Cornelious, the last croft to ever live there, said that "I should never have brought that cursed from the mainland. It was foolish of me to think I could control it, and once it became apparent that it had a mind of its own, it was too late. All we could do was flee the island and hope the water would contain it". Lara is open for some help, as Cornelious had a weird obsession with lizards, but it couldn't be worse than a big gecko, could it?

== Setting ==

The base setting of this adventure is Khean (My homebrew world), but any low-magic setting would do. Preferably, people wouldn't know much about magic, as this is partially a cosmic horror setting, but it is possible to have a science-y type character learn magic once on the island, and play a wizard/sorcerer, or have a native of the island who has already learned the secrets of _rock from space_ (TM) based magic join the crew after they arrive.

About the island itself: it is the island to the north west of the capital, Wodfics. It used to house a small hamlet along with the Croft "Mannor" (which is more of a castle, really), until most inhabitants left, in the Croft Diaspora. The few that survived created a small community of druids and rangers, which have around 15 to 20 people left.

== General flow ==

The only set parts of the adventure are the start and the very end.

The [[start.wiki|start of the adventure]] is the Croft Crew going to the island. I would consider the start over when a camp is set close to the Hamlet.

The [[end.wiki|end of the adventure]] is achieved when the crew stroms the Croft mannor, fighting the final boss and either die trying to reclaim the mannor, or they do reclaim and the rebuilding process can start for real. This should end at or around level 7.

Other than this, the players are free to explore and clear different areas, understanding what happened and making the final fight easier.

Some of the things they can do:
* Help rebuilding the hamlet. This way they can get help from the people there, be it medical, sanity, or resources.
* Exploring the sewers, this is a multi-level dungeon, lived on by vermin such as mutated rats and lizards. This gives a back entrance to the final dungeon, making the start of the dungeon easier.
* Exploring the chapel/cemitery. This is another multi-level dungeon, with restless corpses and spirit. This gives a lot of information about the curse, and might allow Lara to cast Flesh Ward using _space rocks_.
  This uses the general idea of the elemental monks, but they'll be worshiping part of the _Rock from space_.
* Exploring the ruins of the Hamlet. This is a single-level "mega dungeon" filled with weird aberrations. Small incursions will lead some _space rock_ shards. Clearing the whole ruins makes for better resting, as the area is safer and Lara won't be sleeping on the floor anymore.
* Exploring the forest leads to beasts, and the lost cult of druids. With one or two exceptions that want out, these druids are aggressive towards the players. The druid that wants out can join the party, or supply them with some enchanted items and knowledge of how the _space rock_ works.

Commit message:

add information on major enemy faction, Wayland

adventure/README.md, after:

= Recovering the Croft Estate =

A sandbox campaign for Call of Cthulhu, designed to get my wife into TTRPGs.

This campaign was greatly inspired by the game Darkest Dungeon in general idea and tone, and the details by the campaign Dungeons of Drakkenheim - by the Dungeon Dudes.

Pitch for a Game Master: Long ago, Cornelious Croft messed with things he didn't know enough about. This snowballed into needing to leave his castle behind, and now, several generations later, Lara Croft is back to reclaim the castle for her name. This is a sandbox campaign intended for 2 or 3 players (playable with 1 player and a DMPC) set in some island ruins, dealing with misterious magic.

Pitch for the players: Lara Croft - one of the players - found documents for the old Estate. After much research, she discovered the island where it is hidden, and wants to make it her home once again. Cornelious, the last croft to ever live there, said that "I should never have brought that cursed from the mainland. It was foolish of me to think I could control it, and once it became apparent that it had a mind of its own, it was too late. All we could do was flee the island and hope the water would contain it". Lara is open for some help, as Cornelious had a weird obsession with lizards, but it couldn't be worse than a big gecko, could it?

== Setting ==

The base setting of this adventure is Khean (My homebrew world), but any low-magic setting would do.

About the island itself: it is the island to the north west of the capital, Wodfics. It used to house a small hamlet along with the Croft "Mannor" (which is more of a castle, really), until most inhabitants left, in the Croft Diaspora. The few that survived created a small community of druids and rangers, which have around 15 to 20 people left.

== General flow ==

The only set parts of the adventure are the start and the very end.

The [[start.wiki|start of the adventure]] is the Croft Crew going to the island. I would consider the start over when a camp is set close to the Hamlet.
  This would get the player acquainted with the main antagonistic faction: [[lore/wayland.wiki|Wayland Inc.]]

The [[end.wiki|end of the adventure]] is achieved when the crew stroms the Croft mannor, fighting the final boss and either die trying to reclaim the mannor, or they do reclaim and the rebuilding process can start for real. This should end at or around level 7.

Other than this, the players are free to explore and clear different areas, understanding what happened and making the final fight easier.

Some of the things they can do:
* Help rebuilding the hamlet. This way they can get help from the people there, be it medical, sanity, or resources.
* Exploring the sewers, this is a multi-level dungeon, lived on by vermin such as mutated rats and lizards. This gives a back entrance to the final dungeon, making the start of the dungeon easier.
* Exploring the chapel/cemitery. This is another multi-level dungeon, with restless corpses and spirit. This gives a lot of information about the curse, and might allow Lara to cast Flesh Ward using _space rocks_.
  This uses the general idea of the elemental monks, but they'll be worshiping part of the _Rock from space_.
* Exploring the ruins of the Hamlet. This is a single-level "mega dungeon" filled with weird aberrations. Small incursions will lead some _space rock_ shards. Clearing the whole ruins makes for better resting, as the area is safer and Lara won't be sleeping on the floor anymore.
* Exploring the forest leads to beasts, and the lost cult of druids. With one or two exceptions that want out, these druids are aggressive towards the players. The druid that wants out can join the party, or supply them with some enchanted items and knowledge of how the _space rock_ works.
