= 20/nov =

== overall plans ==

Players may explore a bit the capital, gather some rumors and set off to Suwerg, to find what was happening there with the demon invocations, and probaby start investigating the secret police.

The important bits for the session itself are to make their way there, see a group of demons here or there, find and defeat the Roc that is causing trouble, and leave in a thoughtful mood.

== Details: Capital ==

=== castle ===

The chatter in the castle is that of celebration. The recent victory over the rebels has really upped morale.

An order from on high comes for the team to explore the region of the magical market. The region has become pretty dangerous, people are fearing being robbed blind in the middle of the day.

In the meantime, rumors in the castle (and in the brotherhood of secrets) say that things are getting worse in Suwerg. The inhabitants were asking for official help some days ago, but since no one came and things only gotten worse, they are taking matters into their own hands.

It is said that in Suwerg demons are openly walking the streets now, people are feeling really unsafe, scared of being attacked and eaten in broad daylight. Some have started getting some weapons to attack the demons, others have decided to attack the warlocks of the city instead.

This should prompt the players enough to rush to Suwerg

=== Brotherhood of Secrets === 

The bortherhood is located at the Magical Market. They aren't really all that bothered by the "rampant" crime, it is mostly a "king's army" problem, not a big issue for the average joes.

They did hear about the Suwerg rumors, but don't believe the warlocks are actually summoning demons there. Most of the warlocks have actually left in the last few years, once the persecution got bad.
